---
layout: post
title: "4: Breath"
date: 2020-06-30
---

My therapist told me that anxiety is there for a reason. A worry comes from somewhere, even if it is hastily catastrophized. Certain functions of the brain, even if they are the more primitive and reptilian, see a reason to fear. 

Since anxiety is about a desire for control, suppressing it can only expand it. Rather than see it as a burden, we make a choice to engage with it, discerning when our brains have exaggerated our worries, at which point we know to attend to them. We see them, we move through them. They are signals.

The moving-through is the in-breath and the out-breath. I let the words slide past my face. A translucent sheet of water. A pulse. Motion in stillness. Atoms vibrate. A miracle.

If I forget what I was going to say, can I forget that which occupies my mind as easily? It is the webbing of thoughts that makes them so pliable, fungible, dispensible. Tara Brach says that thought is the contraction of the mind. Thich Nhat Hanh says that between the mind and the body is the breath. I can guess that the breath is the loosening of the mind, the bridge between contraction and expansion. With the breath, the thoughts become silent noise. 


George Floyd could not breathe. For eight minutes and forty six seconds, a police officer took his breath from him.

On June 9, 2020, the New York Stock Exchange held a moment of silence in the memory of George Floyd that lasted eight minutes and forty six seconds. 

In Nikole Hannah-Jones’s 1619 Project, Tiyah Miles illustrates Wall Street's legacy of slavery. Not only did the slaves in New Amsterdam and New York “put in place much of the local infrastructure, including Broad Way and the Bowery roads, Governors Island, and the first municipal buildings and churches.” Even in the wake of New York’s gradual abolition of slavery at the end of the eighteenth century, white financiers invested in Southern plantations: “Southern planters who wanted to buy more land and black people borrowed funds from New York bankers and protected the value of bought bodies with policies from New York insurance companies. New York factories produced the agricultural tools forced into Southern slaves’ hands and the rough fabric called ‘Negro Cloth’ worn on their backs. Ships originating in New York docked in the port of New Orleans to service the trade in domestic and (by then, illegal) international slaves.” In the following decades, New York City became a hub for shipping cotton to Europe.

Slaves built the original wall for which Wall Street is named. It is located at the New York City’s first organized slave auction site. In 1991, construction workers uncovered an 18th-century African burial ground in Lower Manhattan, where 20,000 bodies were laid to rest. 

At the conclusion of the Stock Exchange’s moment of silence for George Floyd, a bell pealed and a blue screen appeared behind the three people standing in his honor. It says “We Are Living Tech,” with a link: nyse.com/living-tech. On that website, the enlarged sentence: “You Bring it to Life, We Bring it to Market.” The three people part the screen, splitting it in half as they enter the door within.

What goes away, exactly, when people die?

I cannot aestheticize the violence of this moment. I realize that it already lives in everything we share with each other about the death of Black people in this country. Whether for critical discussion about everything we need to do in response to the murders of Black people, or for sheer exposure to the violence that people choose to ignore because they already know about it. Witnessing Black death, the proof of it, punctures their comfortable status quo. They deny because they already know. It affects all of us who forget the pain of others. The bodies of Black people are in the soil of this country, in the wood and brick of so many buildings which dot the landscape. Their bodies have been carried in the images and words of the crowd. They live in high security prisons, the boundary between the visible and the expendable. In the silences. It shouldn’t have taken the brutal image of one Black man’s death to remind masses of people, those who are not Black, the weight of Black life that we already carry. Many have summoned the other names to the fore. Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade, Ahmaud Arbery, Tamir Rice, Sandra Bland, Eric Garner, Freddie Gray, Akai Gurley, Rekia Boyd, Atatiana Jefferson, Trayvon Martin, Emmett Till. 

Toni Morrison says that she can never become immune to the violence that Black people face. “I think that’s a kind of failure, to see so much of it that you die inside. I want to be surprised, shocked, every time.”

What is the breath when someone takes it away from another? Thich Nhat Hanh states that in one inhale, one touches the miracle of life. He wrote to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in June 1965, asking for King’s support to end the war in Vietnam. He noted the acts of self-immolation that monks committed in Vietnam, what brought them to take apart their own miracles: “Sometimes we have to burn ourselves in order to be heard. It is out of compassion that you do that. It is the act of love and not of despair.”

After their first meeting in Chicago, after which Dr. King vowed to speak out against the war in Vietnam, Nhat Hanh and King met for the second time in May 1967, at the Pacem in Terris conference in Geneva. Nhat Hanh said to King: “Martin, you know something? In Vietnam they call you a bodhisattva, an enlightened being trying to awaken other living beings and help them go in the direction of compassion and understanding.”

In less than a year, on April 4, 1968, Martin Luther King was assassinated in Memphis.

What is a stolen miracle? What is the moment when someone steals life because he hates a person he doesn’t even know? He hates his idea of him. He learns to fear the very idea, a figure that he latches onto the other person’s body. Conception becomes flesh. He swallows that fear, that it becomes his own body. It is in the unit of his wellbeing, his job at the start, and it becomes greater than his job, to consume his whole identity and approach to life, and the power by which he can allow life to continue or he can choose to steal it away. 

Chogyam Trungpa says that fear becomes our study material, our working basis. Our journey with fear is choiceless. That choicelessness can empower us, or it can swallow us. 

Botanist Doug Larson, whose research examines the survival of ancient trees in the harsh conditions of cliff faces, says that the earth doesn’t care about whether we preserve the conditions of it that we know to love. Clear skies and oceans are not the default preference of the planet. In the same way, the institutions that carry the legacy of racism, hatred, fear, shame in this country do not care whether we change them. The institutions, though alterable and expungeable, can only come apart by dint of those who act in the arc of that disruption. The struggle of the living is at stake. The living have the agency to create the conditions in which we live, we who carry our ancestors in our bodies, we who breathe each other’s air, we who teach those who survive us. Angela Davis, in an interview with Afropunk, remarks that collective self-care and joy enable us to reach freedom: “As we struggle, we are attempting to presage the world to come… If we don’t start practicing collective self-care now, there’s no way to imagine, much less reach a time of freedom.” 

The miracle of life, as Thich Nhat Hanh explains that each step is a kiss on the earth, the step with which we could reckon standing on stolen land, dwelling in buildings forged by stolen lives, the broad legacy of stolen miracles contained within the miracle of life, is what decides the state of the future for this so-called sacredness, in the form of country, land, planet. 
