---
layout: post
title: "--: Here lies"
date: 2020-01-27

--: Here lies

  I start this blog to write more. Write more frequently, write more words. I aim to understand why I want to write; I hope to sense that my mission is genuine. My purpose for writing to date has felt superficial. My subconscious goal was to become a public intellectual, without knowing what that meant (I still don’t). I could always do more to develop my writing: more reading, researching, analyzing, journaling, sketching. Simply, I could actually put things down, instead of keeping them inside to memory and dissolution, like dreams. 

  With all that occupies my time and consumes my energy apart from my daydreaming of a practice, I feel unable to work. I lack discipline. I crave motivation. I rely on my job, which I enjoy with a whole heart, to sate my creative and intellectual hunger. I rely on hobbies, like strength training and mixed martial arts and cooking. These are beautiful things. I cherish them. I have always been a variously creative person. I have always wanted to dip my feet in everything. Yet rather than invigorate my desire to practice in many areas, I wince from indecision. I believe that I lack validation for the work of my mind, which comes from the falsehood that writing must be the elite form in which I convey my thoughts and ideas. It is the form through which I become an artist, an intellectual, rightly recognized by society. If I know this to be false, I will untether it as I learn more about my biases and subconscious desires. This new year, as a kind of time-marked excuse, calls for me to realize what I need to feel whole. I hope, even if slowly, to break away from the trauma of deficiency, the need to outperform my capacity for the sake of appearances. Then I may know what I want.

  This is my experiment. I hold myself to write and post at least once a month. It will activate something. Maybe I will learn that I don’t want to write for the long-term, for a living. Perhaps I will learn that I can write for nothing. Maybe I will learn that I can challenge myself to write the words I want people to know, and I will comply with the desire for others’ attention and appraisal. From here, I dive in. Let me see what comes out. 
