---
layout: post
title: "0: The zeroth card for humanity"
date: 2020-01-31
---

0: The zeroth card for humanity

I drove from work tonight, a Friday night. The roads were congested at 8pm. I signaled to move into another lane and made my way in slowly. A Ford swerved in before me moving twice as fast. At one point it was one foot away from my car. The whole ride I yearned to remember a thought that I had during a conversation and lost when I got distracted. It happened often with my wandering mind. I left work frustrated by my inability to recall an idea at the tip of my tongue. I aimed to spend my trip home recollecting that thought. The detached focus of driving would help me retrace the conversation. 

I had moved past the traffic when I remembered that I had hoped to speak about how readers can’t rely on the reports from Chinese officials on Coronavirus’s  true death toll and number of extant cases. The memory of the Ford stuck to the fore. I expected satisfaction from finding the lost thought, yet I was empty. I doubted myself: had I moved in too fast? Was this person driving recklessly? Did they not notice me at all? I spent the rest of the trip eyeing the person from behind, wanting to hate them. They smeared my sense of completionism. I knew that I had no idea what happened, and I could have as easily blamed myself. 

I got home to notice that the gate door was locked, the glass one held by a metal frame. The backyard light shone onto the right half of my face, outlining the scars on the left side of my nose. I remembered how ugly I thought I was. As I entered my home, I realized how unwilling I was to accept my imperfection. I feared to face my humanity: all are flawed. I wanted to be the prettiest thing I could be. I wanted to be praised for it. An instance of upset would tear me apart, because I would have to face the truth. The truth is that I am not the prettiest thing. I won’t be. But I don’t need to be pretty. Although I tell myself that I am invalid when I am not pretty, I choose to live on so that I have another day to be pretty. On the other side of that choice, I hope the next day will provide me a better way to treat myself. I’m a little closer to the latter goal. If I can reflect on why I punish myself, I may discover why I crave to. To find my ability to love is to shred the cycle of masochism, to crush the hamster wheel. Care does not demand victimhood. It needs confidence, which I guess means faith, shaky yet firm in its hold on the unruly chaff of a maintained system. A landfill is a place on earth. To know I am ugly is to know, which is to accept, which is to love, which is to maintain, which is to waste, myself all at once. 
