---
layout: post
title: "3: The wave"
date: 2020-04-30
---

A red house.

A truck. A funeral home. The Brooklyn borough president arrives, bowing under the yellow tape.

A crying nurse sits at a desk the width of her body, covering her face.

A door to a dead body, then a door to the living. Standard greetings cross the room.

The sunset was powder blue on the walls.

A busy hospital in the early morning hours. Powder blue. A nurse sings here comes the sun.

A nurse FaceTimes his patient’s family. He feels guilty for being the only connection between them. The patient has trouble seeing the screen. 

The number he remembers as among his recent calls. He remembers not to save it.

The house whistles in the rain. There is a crack in the wood.

Someone unfolds a blanket. They can’t fall asleep during the day.

Someone tries to nap in the other room.

A dog wonders what puts everyone in this mood. He sits in the space that people allow, by their folded knees.

Kious Kelly, 48, was the first New York nurse reported to have died by COVID-19. He worked at Mt. Sinai West in Manhattan. A New York Times obituary says that in early January the hospital blog honored him “not for helping to make someone well, but for helping a family deal with a patient’s death.” He died two months later on March 24.

He first went to New York to become a dancer, sometime in the nineties.

In a Facebook post, Kelly’s sister, Marya Patrice Sherron, proclaimed that he was not a victim. “He served with love.” She calls on her past students to understand God’s faith, calling Kious a brother of Jesus. She urges her students to believe when they pray, citing James 1:6. Not to believe in the act of praying, but to believe in the Lord, who has faith in his people.

“But when you ask, you must believe and not doubt, because the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind.” --James 1:6, NIV

Marion James Smith IV, the birth name of Kious Kelly. James, the name his sister calls him. 

James, in the Epistle, encourages God’s followers to pray in all situations.

I see charm in the analogy as I envision Kious dancing like an ocean wave. Not wholly ironic, but long, melancholic. Wearying, holding himself against the fore.

Many, including his sister, mention how people around the world know his name now. They praise him. The New York Times obituary mentions how this esteem is surely not what he envisioned for himself when he first embarked for New York as a young artist.

He went to nursing school at NYU, for as New York Times suggests, he put aside his aspirations for the stage as so many in show business do.

The nurse who FaceTimes his patient’s family declares that he is not a hero. “Who am I to be privy to the sanctity of that final reunion? It feels like a sin. I am ashamed.” 

He himself is afraid to die. He says, anything less than a hazmat suit is not enough. 

“Yesterday, I considered writing a will.
.
.
I am 24 years old. I am an ICU nurse in New York City. I am in good health at this time, so I should have no reason to even think about writing a will. But yesterday, I resigned myself to the fact that my likelihood of dying is statistically more plausible than I had previously imagined.”

A wave returns to the sea. A wave becomes a wave. It is another, and another. It is nothing.

A spirit.

A dazzling performance.

A house of blood. A hospital is a red house.

The walls painted bright to match nothing.

The normal world of anonymous people.

The wave crashes against the cliff. Parted from the foam that clings to the rock, it goes back to the sea, ever surmounted by its peers in the expanse. You are never alone in the sea. Someone always looks up in the middle of a vast stretch.

Does the wind control the waters?
What does God decide, when the forces act upon each other?

A hospital of dust which is old skin. Disinfectant, viral remnants, blood stuck to the soles of the nurses’ white shoes.

A red house. A vehicle. On Utica Avenue, Brooklyn. A box filled with bodies. A neighbor’s question. The rustling voices call about the smell. Whisper about everything they can’t know.

A red house. No one to call out to each other in the same room. Only the shuffling of feet. The dancers, they go winding down the hallways.

The memory of a nurse singing here comes the sun.

The body in a bed.

Blood, when dry, is no longer red. It is brown, black. A clod of platelets. An earth. A soiled gown.

He takes a shower when he comes home.

No one walked the halls when the disaster subsided. No one wanted to feel their bodies. The truck lay flat against the earth. 

We painted the walls with determination and enthusiasm. Someone drinks from a tall glass of water. Powder blue.

A nurse waves goodbye to the camera.


